you
Hi, for those of you who are here at the last talk, you will not believe it, but exactly the same thing happened to this talk.
My friend in China, he couldn't come here, so he asked me and also Dr. Zhao to co-present his interesting software.
So let's start. So it is a video editing software and you know traditionally video editing is quite time consuming with all the drag and dropping going on.
And my friend thought it would actually be more efficient if we have something that's kind of text based in the terminal.
So let me kind of just do some quick demo. It's going to be very preliminary.
This solution has a lot of features, but I'm just going to walk through the most basic ones.
So let's say we have some videos, ignore all the temporary roughcast something files.
So let's say we have take this one, open Wi-Fi 2022, which is actually Dr. Zhao's talk the year before, first time.
And so let's assume that you have obtained some subtitles in a SRT file.
Maybe you did this yourself. Maybe you use some like AI generators like those of those these days.
And what you do is the first step would be to convert that to a TSV file, TSV being just tap separated values like CSV, but just the tabs.
Although it's not like any TSV, it's a kind of a specific format.
So for instance, and now I've skipped all the installation steps.
But if you have my friend counts Vim plugin installed and you open this with Vim, you'll be greeted with this.
And it looks like a normal editor, but there are actually like a lot of key bindings that you can do.
So for instance, it's integrated with the MPV, which is just a media player that has like CLI options.
And if you press like tap, it will just play this line.
There's no like hopefully my laptop is loud enough.
Yeah, the subtitles are not very precise.
Okay, so that's kind of just that, but that's not really editing video yet.
But let's do some very simple editing.
Let's say we want to just cut these two lines out from this video.
You just select them and just press space.
Good morning, good afternoon, and good evening.
And you have a video that has these two lines.
And you can do more fancy stuff with it.
Of course, for instance, let's say you want to just, let's say we want to pick part of this line.
Let's say we just want, we don't want good afternoon.
We don't care about people who, for whom the time current time is afternoon.
So just if you just press pipe, it splits this line into two and we can skip this line.
If you just press backspace, it skips this line.
You will notice that what it did is actually change the first column.
And then if you explore this again.
Good morning, good evening.
Right, we skipped out the part of good afternoon.
We don't care about afternoon people anymore.
Okay, so that's the basic stuff and I only have two minutes left.
One thing, one final thing I will show is just, so we saw all those MPV windows.
You can see this, the popping up and popping out, but maybe if you want to just have it open all the time,
you press backspace, backslash twice, it pops up and you can do things like seek to this place,
seek to that place or like you can seek an MPV and bring the time sign from MPV to the TSV.
We can do fancy stuff like that.
And also, if in any case this is not professional enough for you,
which will be very surprising to my friend, you can explore this to Final Cut.
And if you just press X instead of space, it will export to FCP XML file,
which you can then open in Final Cut Pro.
I would make my friend really sad if you have to do that.
Okay, so that's like a very quick tour of what you can do with this wonderful VIM plugin.
But one thing that's what came in mind, like this talk is called with or without VIM plugin,
is really just like a way of using the text or the text TSV files to video editing.
So my friend uses VIM, so he developed a VIM plugin, but it's very easy.
If you don't want to use VIM, you can just use CLI yourself.
It's built using a bunch of CLI utilities.
We can develop a plugin for a different editor, so that will make my friend count really happy.
And there are more fancy features that I don't quite understand.
So I would just play a quick demo video that he prepared.
Hello, I'm Grover. It's called Elvish.
Okay, that's all for today. I'm joking. Let's get started.
Go manage it up.
Okay, there's more information. It's all linked from the FOSTA schedule page.
And do we have time for Q&A?
Two minutes.
Okay.
I'm going to take questions.
Yeah.
Yes?
Is it only Final Cut XML or can we just export to a normal XML that we can also import from
your profile example?
I've heard that the FCP XML file is supported not just in Final Cut Pro, but also in the
other...
Oh, the question was, does the exported XML file only support Final Cut Pro?
My understanding is that there are multiple video editing software that supports the same
format.
It's called FCP XML, but it's actually supported by multiple programs.
Sorry.
You're supposed to take the question.
My answer is confirmed today.
My answer is confirmed to be correct.
Oh, Ash.
Oh, bad.